---
title: Phase 3
date: 2025-01-03 00:00:00 +0530
---

## Phase 3: Strategy (5–6 weeks)

---

#### Lecture Topics

1. Joseki (2 hours) : Diving deeper into joseki patterns.

2. Sente and Gote (1 hour) : Explaining initiative and how to evaluate moves’ importance.

3. Building Influence vs. Territory (2 hours) : Balancing frameworks and securing key areas.

4. Common Mistakes & How to Fix Them (2 hours) : Overplays, weak groups, and inefficient moves.

5. Mid-Game Techniques (1–2 hours) : Invading, reducing, and attacking.

6. Endgame Techniques (2 hours) : Covering basics.

## Tasks

---

- Play 30+ 19x19 games focusing on all phases of the game.

- Solve 20+ Tsumegos everyday.

#### Lesson 1: Joseki

- Study the joseki patterns and apply them in games.

#### Lesson 2: Sente and Gote

- Annotate given game, highlighting instances of sente & gote moves.

#### Lesson 3: Building Influence vs. Territory

- Analyze given games and categorize moves as “influence-oriented” or “territory-oriented.”
- Play your games, alternating focus between influence and territory.

#### Lesson 4: Common Mistakes & Fixes

- Create a list of common mistakes you make during games.
- Play games with a focus on avoiding such mistakes.

#### Lesson 5: Mid-Game Techniques

- Analyze given game to identify examples of weak vs strong groups,invading and reducing.

#### Lesson 5: Endgame Techniques

- Solve 10+ problems focused on maximizing endgame points.
- Play games, focusing on endgame calculations.

---
